<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>X: Perplexities.—Another Death</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-10" epub:type="chapter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h2>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Perplexities.⁠—Another Death</h3>
				</hgroup>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph z3998:poem">
					<p>
						<span>Neath the billows of the ocean,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hidden treasures wait the hand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That again to light shall raise them</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the diver’s magic wand.</span>
					</p>
					<cite><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">G. W.</abbr> Cook.</cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>The family, gathered by James’ decease, returned to their homes. Susan and Charles returned to Baltimore. Letters were received from the absent, expressing their sympathy and grief. The father bowed like a “bruised reed,” under the loss of his beloved son. He felt desirous to die the death of the righteous; also, conscious that he was unprepared, he resolved to start on the narrow way, and some time solicit entrance through the gate which leads to the celestial city. He acknowledged his too ready acquiescence with <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">B.</abbr>, in permitting Frado to be deprived of her only religious privileges for weeks together. He accordingly asked his sister to take her to meeting once more, which she was ready at once to do.</p>
			<p>The first opportunity they once more attended meeting together. The minister conversed faithfully with every person present. He was surprised to find the little colored girl so solicitous, and kindly directed her to the flowing fountain where she might wash and be clean. He inquired of the origin of her anxiety, of her progress up to this time, and endeavored to make Christ, instead of James, the attraction of Heaven. He invited her to come to his house, to speak freely her mind to him, to pray much, to read her Bible often.</p>
			<p>The neighbors, who were at meeting⁠—among them <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Reed⁠—discussed the opinions <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Bellmont would express on the subject. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Reed called and informed <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">B.</abbr> that her colored girl “related her experience the other night at the meeting.”</p>
			<p>“What experience?” asked she, quickly, as if she expected to hear the number of times she had whipped Frado, and the number of lashes set forth in plain Arabic numbers.</p>
			<p>“Why, you know she is serious, don’t you? She told the minister about it.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">B.</abbr> made no reply, but changed the subject adroitly. Next morning she told Frado she “should not go out of the house for one while, except on errands; and if she did not stop trying to be religious, she would whip her to death.”</p>
			<p>Frado pondered; her mistress was a professor of religion; was <em>she</em> going to heaven? then she did not wish to go. If she should be near James, even, she could not be happy with those fiery eyes watching her ascending path. She resolved to give over all thought of the future world, and strove daily to put her anxiety far from her.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Bellmont found himself unable to do what James or Jack could accomplish for her. He talked with her seriously, told her he had seen her many times punished undeservedly; he did not wish to have her saucy or disrespectful, but when she was <em>sure</em> she did not deserve a whipping, to avoid it if she could. “You are looking sick,” he added, “you cannot endure beating as you once could.”</p>
			<p>It was not long before an opportunity offered of profiting by his advice. She was sent for wood, and not returning as soon as <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">B.</abbr> calculated, she followed her, and, snatching from the pile a stick, raised it over her.</p>
			<p>“Stop!” shouted Frado, “strike me, and I’ll never work a mite more for you;” and throwing down what she had gathered, stood like one who feels the stirring of free and independent thoughts.</p>
			<p>By this unexpected demonstration, her mistress, in amazement, dropped her weapon, desisting from her purpose of chastisement. Frado walked towards the house, her mistress following with the wood she herself was sent after. She did not know, before, that she had a power to ward off assaults. Her triumph in seeing her enter the door with <em>her</em> burden, repaid her for much of her former suffering.</p>
			<p>It was characteristic of <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">B.</abbr> never to rise in her majesty, unless she was sure she should be victorious.</p>
			<p>This affair never met with an “after clap,” like many others.</p>
			<p>Thus passed a year. The usual amount of scolding, but fewer whippings. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">B.</abbr> longed once more for Mary’s return, who had been absent over a year; and she wrote imperatively for her to come quickly to her. A letter came in reply, announcing that she would comply as soon as she was sufficiently recovered from an illness which detained her.</p>
			<p>No serious apprehensions were cherished by either parent, who constantly looked for notice of her arrival, by mail. Another letter brought tidings that Mary was seriously ill; her mother’s presence was solicited.</p>
			<p>She started without delay. Before she reached her destination, a letter came to the parents announcing her death.</p>
			<p>No sooner was the astounding news received, than Frado rushed into Aunt Abby’s, exclaiming:⁠—</p>
			<p>“She’s dead, Aunt Abby!”</p>
			<p>“Who?” she asked, terrified by the unprefaced announcement.</p>
			<p>“Mary; they’ve just had a letter.”</p>
			<p>As <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">B.</abbr> was away, the brother and sister could freely sympathize, and she sought him in this fresh sorrow, to communicate such solace as she could, and to learn particulars of Mary’s untimely death, and assist him in his journey thither.</p>
			<p>It seemed a thanksgiving to Frado. Every hour or two she would pop in into Aunt Abby’s room with some strange query:</p>
			<p>“She got into the <em>river</em> again, Aunt Abby, didn’t she; the Jordan is a big one to tumble into, anyhow. S’posen she goes to hell, she’ll be as black as I am. Wouldn’t mistress be mad to see her a nigger!” and others of a similar stamp, not at all acceptable to the pious, sympathetic dame; but she could not evade them.</p>
			<p>The family returned from their sorrowful journey, leaving the dead behind. Nig looked for a change in her tyrant; what could subdue her, if the loss of her idol could not?</p>
			<p>Never was <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">B.</abbr> known to shed tears so profusely, as when she reiterated to one and another the sad particulars of her darling’s sickness and death. There was, indeed, a season of quiet grief; it was the lull of the fiery elements. A few weeks revived the former tempests, and so at variance did they seem with chastisement sanctified, that Frado felt them to be unbearable. She determined to flee. But where? Who would take her? <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">B.</abbr> had always represented her ugly. Perhaps everyone thought her so. Then no one would take her. She was black, no one would love her. She might have to return, and then she would be more in her mistress’ power than ever.</p>
			<p>She remembered her victory at the woodpile. She decided to remain to do as well as she could; to assert her rights when they were trampled on; to return once more to her meeting in the evening, which had been prohibited. She had learned how to conquer; she would not abuse the power while <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Bellmont was at home.</p>
			<p>But had she not better run away? Where? She had never been from the place far enough to decide what course to take. She resolved to speak to Aunt Abby. <em>She</em> mapped the dangers of her course, her liability to fail in finding so good friends as John and herself. Frado’s mind was busy for days and nights. She contemplated administering poison to her mistress, to rid herself and the house of so detestable a plague.</p>
			<p>But she was restrained by an overruling Providence; and finally decided to stay contentedly through her period of service, which would expire when she was eighteen years of age.</p>
			<p>In a few months Jane returned home with her family, to relieve her parents, upon whom years and affliction had left the marks of age. The years intervening since she had left her home, had, in some degree, softened the opposition to her unsanctioned marriage with George. The more <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">B.</abbr> had about her, the more energetic seemed her directing capabilities, and her faultfinding propensities. Her own, she had full power over; and Jane after vain endeavors, became disgusted, weary, and perplexed, and decided that, though her mother might suffer, she could not endure her home. They followed Jack to the West. Thus vanished all hopes of sympathy or relief from this source to Frado. There seemed no one capable of enduring the oppressions of the house but her. She turned to the darkness of the future with the determination previously formed, to remain until she should be eighteen. Jane begged her to follow her so soon as she should be released; but so wearied out was she by her mistress, she felt disposed to flee from any and everyone having her similitude of name or feature.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
