<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 3: A New Home for Me</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">A New Home for Me</span>
			</h2>
			<blockquote epub:type="epigraph z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>Oh! did we but know of the shadows so nigh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The world would indeed be a prison of gloom;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All light would be quenched in youth’s eloquent eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the prayer-lisping infant would ask for the tomb.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For if Hope be a star that may lead us astray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And “deceiveth the heart,” as the aged ones preach;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet ’twas Mercy that gave it, to beacon our way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though its halo illumes where it never can reach.</span>
				</p>
				<cite>Eliza Cook.</cite>
			</blockquote>
			<p>As the day closed and Mag did not appear, surmises were expressed by the family that she never intended to return. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Bellmont was a kind, humane man, who would not grudge hospitality to the poorest wanderer, nor fail to sympathize with any sufferer, however humble. The child’s desertion by her mother appealed to his sympathy, and he felt inclined to succor her. To do this in opposition to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Bellmont’s wishes, would be like encountering a whirlwind charged with fire, daggers and spikes. She was not as susceptible of fine emotions as her spouse. Mag’s opinion of her was not without foundation. She was self-willed, haughty, undisciplined, arbitrary and severe. In common parlance, she was a SCOLD, a thorough one. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> B. remained silent during the consultation which follows, engaged in by mother, Mary and John, or Jack, as he was familiarly called.</p>
			<p>“Send her to the County House,” said Mary, in reply to the query what should be done with her, in a tone which indicated self-importance in the speaker. She was indeed the idol of her mother, and more nearly resembled her in disposition and manners than the others.</p>
			<p>Jane, an invalid daughter, the eldest of those at home, was reclining on a sofa apparently uninterested.</p>
			<p>“Keep her,” said Jack. “She’s real handsome and bright, and not very black, either.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” rejoined Mary; “that’s just like you, Jack. She’ll be of no use at all these three years, right under foot all the time.”</p>
			<p>“Poh! Miss Mary; if she should stay, it wouldn’t be two days before you would be telling the girls about OUR nig, OUR nig!” retorted Jack.</p>
			<p>“I don’t want a nigger ’round ME, do you, mother?” asked Mary.</p>
			<p>“I don’t mind the nigger in the child. I should like a dozen better than one,” replied her mother. “If I could make her do my work in a few years, I would keep her. I have so much trouble with girls I hire, I am almost persuaded if I have one to train up in my way from a child, I shall be able to keep them awhile. I am tired of changing every few months.”</p>
			<p>“Where could she sleep?” asked Mary. “I don’t want her near me.”</p>
			<p>“In the L chamber,” answered the mother.</p>
			<p>“How’ll she get there?” asked Jack. “She’ll be afraid to go through that dark passage, and she can’t climb the ladder safely.”</p>
			<p>“She’ll have to go there; it’s good enough for a nigger,” was the reply.</p>
			<p>Jack was sent on horseback to ascertain if Mag was at her home. He returned with the testimony of Pete Greene that they were fairly departed, and that the child was intentionally thrust upon their family.</p>
			<p>The imposition was not at all relished by <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> B., or the pert, haughty<br/>
			Mary, who had just glided into her teens.<br/></p>
			<p>“Show the child to bed, Jack,” said his mother. “You seem most pleased with the little nigger, so you may introduce her to her room.”</p>
			<p>He went to the kitchen, and, taking Frado gently by the hand, told her he would put her in bed now; perhaps her mother would come the next night after her.</p>
			<p>It was not yet quite dark, so they ascended the stairs without any light, passing through nicely furnished rooms, which were a source of great amazement to the child. He opened the door which connected with her room by a dark, unfinished passageway. “Don’t bump your head,” said Jack, and stepped before to open the door leading into her apartment⁠—an unfinished chamber over the kitchen, the roof slanting nearly to the floor, so that the bed could stand only in the middle of the room. A small half window furnished light and air. Jack returned to the sitting room with the remark that the child would soon outgrow those quarters.</p>
			<p>“When she DOES, she’ll outgrow the house,” remarked the mother.</p>
			<p>“What can she do to help you?” asked Mary. “She came just in the right time, didn’t she? Just the very day after Bridget left,” continued she.</p>
			<p>“I’ll see what she can do in the morning,” was the answer.</p>
			<p>While this conversation was passing below, Frado lay, revolving in her little mind whether she would remain or not until her mother’s return. She was of wilful, determined nature, a stranger to fear, and would not hesitate to wander away should she decide to. She remembered the conversation of her mother with Seth, the words “given away” which she heard used in reference to herself; and though she did not know their full import, she thought she should, by remaining, be in some relation to white people she was never favored with before. So she resolved to tarry, with the hope that mother would come and get her some time. The hot sun had penetrated her room, and it was long before a cooling breeze reduced the temperature so that she could sleep.</p>
			<p>Frado was called early in the morning by her new mistress. Her first work was to feed the hens. She was shown how it was ALWAYS to be done, and in no other way; any departure from this rule to be punished by a whipping. She was then accompanied by Jack to drive the cows to pasture, so she might learn the way. Upon her return she was allowed to eat her breakfast, consisting of a bowl of skimmed milk, with brown bread crusts, which she was told to eat, standing, by the kitchen table, and must not be over ten minutes about it. Meanwhile the family were taking their morning meal in the dining-room. This over, she was placed on a cricket to wash the common dishes; she was to be in waiting always to bring wood and chips, to run hither and thither from room to room.</p>
			<p>A large amount of dish-washing for small hands followed dinner. Then the same after tea and going after the cows finished her first day’s work. It was a new discipline to the child. She found some attractions about the place, and she retired to rest at night more willing to remain. The same routine followed day after day, with slight variation; adding a little more work, and spicing the toil with “words that burn,” and frequent blows on her head. These were great annoyances to Frado, and had she known where her mother was, she would have gone at once to her. She was often greatly wearied, and silently wept over her sad fate. At first she wept aloud, which <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Bellmont noticed by applying a rawhide, always at hand in the kitchen. It was a symptom of discontent and complaining which must be “nipped in the bud,” she said.</p>
			<p>Thus passed a year. No intelligence of Mag. It was now certain Frado was to become a permanent member of the family. Her labors were multiplied; she was quite indispensable, although but seven years old. She had never learned to read, never heard of a school until her residence in the family.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Bellmont was in doubt about the utility of attempting to educate people of color, who were incapable of elevation. This subject occasioned a lengthy discussion in the family. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Bellmont, Jane and Jack arguing for Frado’s education; Mary and her mother objecting. At last <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Bellmont declared decisively that she SHOULD go to school. He was a man who seldom decided controversies at home. The word once spoken admitted of no appeal; so, notwithstanding Mary’s objection that she would have to attend the same school she did, the word became law.</p>
			<p>It was to be a new scene to Frado, and Jack had many queries and conjectures to answer. He was himself too far advanced to attend the summer school, which Frado regretted, having had too many opportunities of witnessing Miss Mary’s temper to feel safe in her company alone.</p>
			<p>The opening day of school came. Frado sauntered on far in the rear of Mary, who was ashamed to be seen “walking with a nigger.” As soon as she appeared, with scanty clothing and bared feet, the children assembled, noisily published her approach: “See that nigger,” shouted one. “Look! look!” cried another. “I won’t play with her,” said one little girl. “Nor I neither,” replied another.</p>
			<p>Mary evidently relished these sharp attacks, and saw a fair prospect of lowering Nig where, according to her views, she belonged. Poor Frado, chagrined and grieved, felt that her anticipations of pleasure at such a place were far from being realized. She was just deciding to return home, and never come there again, when the teacher appeared, and observing the downcast looks of the child, took her by the hand, and led her into the schoolroom. All followed, and, after the bustle of securing seats was over, Miss Marsh inquired if the children knew “any cause for the sorrow of that little girl?” pointing to Frado. It was soon all told. She then reminded them of their duties to the poor and friendless; their cowardice in attacking a young innocent child; referred them to one who looks not on outward appearances, but on the heart. “She looks like a good girl; I think <i>I</i> shall love her, so lay aside all prejudice, and vie with each other in showing kindness and goodwill to one who seems different from you,” were the closing remarks of the kind lady. Those kind words! The most agreeable sound which ever meets the ear of sorrowing, grieving childhood.</p>
			<p>Example rendered her words efficacious. Day by day there was a manifest change of deportment towards “Nig.” Her speeches often drew merriment from the children; no one could do more to enliven their favorite pastimes than Frado. Mary could not endure to see her thus noticed, yet knew not how to prevent it. She could not influence her schoolmates as she wished. She had not gained their affections by winning ways and yielding points of controversy. On the contrary, she was self-willed, domineering; every day reported “mad” by some of her companions. She availed herself of the only alternative, abuse and taunts, as they returned from school. This was not satisfactory; she wanted to use physical force “to subdue her,” to “keep her down.”</p>
			<p>There was, on their way home, a field intersected by a stream over which a single plank was placed for a crossing. It occurred to Mary that it would be a punishment to Nig to compel her to cross over; so she dragged her to the edge, and told her authoritatively to go over. Nig hesitated, resisted. Mary placed herself behind the child, and, in the struggle to force her over, lost her footing and plunged into the stream. Some of the larger scholars being in sight, ran, and thus prevented Mary from drowning and Frado from falling. Nig scampered home fast as possible, and Mary went to the nearest house, dripping, to procure a change of garments. She came loitering home, half crying, exclaiming, “Nig pushed me into the stream!” She then related the particulars. Nig was called from the kitchen. Mary stood with anger flashing in her eyes. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Bellmont sat quietly reading his paper. He had witnessed too many of Miss Mary’s outbreaks to be startled. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Bellmont interrogated Nig.</p>
			<p>“I didn’t do it! I didn’t do it!” answered Nig, passionately, and then related the occurrence truthfully.</p>
			<p>The discrepancy greatly enraged <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Bellmont. With loud accusations and angry gestures she approached the child. Turning to her husband, she asked,</p>
			<p>“Will you sit still, there, and hear that black nigger call Mary a liar?”</p>
			<p>“How do we know but she has told the truth? I shall not punish her,” he replied, and left the house, as he usually did when a tempest threatened to envelop him. No sooner was he out of sight than <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> B. and Mary commenced beating her inhumanly; then propping her mouth open with a piece of wood, shut her up in a dark room, without any supper. For employment, while the tempest raged within, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Bellmont went for the cows, a task belonging to Frado, and thus unintentionally prolonged her pain. At dark Jack came in, and seeing Mary, accosted her with, “So you thought you’d vent your spite on Nig, did you? Why can’t you let her alone? It was good enough for you to get a ducking, only you did not stay in half long enough.”</p>
			<p>“Stop!” said his mother. “You shall never talk so before me. You would have that little nigger trample on Mary, would you? She came home with a lie; it made Mary’s story false.”</p>
			<p>“What was Mary’s story?” asked Jack.</p>
			<p>It was related.</p>
			<p>“Now,” said Jack, sallying into a chair, “the school-children happened to see it all, and they tell the same story Nig does. Which is most likely to be true, what a dozen agree they saw, or the contrary?”</p>
			<p>“It is very strange you will believe what others say against your sister,” retorted his mother, with flashing eye. “I think it is time your father subdued you.”</p>
			<p>“Father is a sensible man,” argued Jack. “He would not wrong a dog.<br/>
			Where IS Frado?” he continued.<br/></p>
			<p>“Mother gave her a good whipping and shut her up,” replied Mary.</p>
			<p>Just then <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Bellmont entered, and asked if Frado was “shut up yet.”</p>
			<p>The knowledge of her innocence, the perfidy of his sister, worked fearfully on Jack. He bounded from his chair, searched every room till he found the child; her mouth wedged apart, her face swollen, and full of pain.</p>
			<p>How Jack pitied her! He relieved her jaws, brought her some supper, took her to her room, comforted her as well as he knew how, sat by her till she fell asleep, and then left for the sitting room. As he passed his mother, he remarked, “If that was the way Frado was to be treated, he hoped she would never wake again!” He then imparted her situation to his father, who seemed untouched, till a glance at Jack exposed a tearful eye. Jack went early to her next morning. She awoke sad, but refreshed. After breakfast Jack took her with him to the field, and kept her through the day. But it could not be so generally. She must return to school, to her household duties. He resolved to do what he could to protect her from Mary and his mother. He bought her a dog, which became a great favorite with both. The invalid, Jane, would gladly befriend her; but she had not the strength to brave the iron will of her mother. Kind words and affectionate glances were the only expressions of sympathy she could safely indulge in. The men employed on the farm were always glad to hear her prattle; she was a great favorite with them. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Bellmont allowed them the privilege of talking with her in the kitchen. She did not fear but she should have ample opportunity of subduing her when they were away. Three months of schooling, summer and winter, she enjoyed for three years. Her winter overdress was a cast-off overcoat, once worn by Jack, and a sunbonnet. It was a source of great merriment to the scholars, but Nig’s retorts were so mirthful, and their satisfaction so evident in attributing the selection to “Old Granny Bellmont,” that it was not painful to Nig or pleasurable to Mary. Her jollity was not to be quenched by whipping or scolding. In <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Bellmont’s presence she was under restraint; but in the kitchen, and among her schoolmates, the pent up fires burst forth. She was ever at some sly prank when unseen by her teacher, in school hours; not unfrequently some outburst of merriment, of which she was the original, was charged upon some innocent mate, and punishment inflicted which she merited. They enjoyed her antics so fully that any of them would suffer wrongfully to keep open the avenues of mirth. She would venture far beyond propriety, thus shielded and countenanced.</p>
			<p>The teacher’s desk was supplied with drawers, in which were stored his books and other et ceteras of the profession. The children observed Nig very busy there one morning before school, as they flitted in occasionally from their play outside. The master came; called the children to order; opened a drawer to take the book the occasion required; when out poured a volume of smoke. “Fire! fire!” screamed he, at the top of his voice. By this time he had become sufficiently acquainted with the peculiar odor, to know he was imposed upon. The scholars shouted with laughter to see the terror of the dupe, who, feeling abashed at the needless fright, made no very strict investigation, and Nig once more escaped punishment. She had provided herself with cigars, and puffing, puffing away at the crack of the drawer, had filled it with smoke, and then closed it tightly to deceive the teacher, and amuse the scholars. The interim of terms was filled up with a variety of duties new and peculiar. At home, no matter how powerful the heat when sent to rake hay or guard the grazing herd, she was never permitted to shield her skin from the sun. She was not many shades darker than Mary now; what a calamity it would be ever to hear the contrast spoken of. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Bellmont was determined the sun should have full power to darken the shade which nature had first bestowed upon her as best befitting.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
